Hi everyone! Welcome to this week's episode of No Stitch Things The Fish, where we were
joined by the incredibly funny and the absolutely charming Zoe Lyons. If you watch QI,
which I bet you do if you listen to this, then you will know all about Zoe. She's always
fantastic when she comes on our show. She's also brilliant on all the other things she
does. Mock The Week is probably what I mostly associate her with, but yeah, she's a brilliant
comedian. She's so funny, she's so nice and so quick. I mean, all these comedians are,
but Zoe, honestly, she is so quick off the blocks. It's unbelievable. And actually, what a
nice segue. She has a podcast out, all about running. Her podcast is called The Running
Joke. It's with her and Esther Minito, and they just talk all about running. Yeah, you
don't have to be a fast runner to enjoy it. It's for everyone, really, even if you just
applaud along at your own pace. It's for you. It's extremely accessible. It's extremely funny,
as you would expect everything to be that involves Zoe and highly recommend you get that.
It's called The Running Joke, and you get it wherever you get your podcasts. While I'm
here, like always, I should remind you about clubfish. Go to patreon.com/clubfish. If you
would like to get involved there, just sign up. You don't need to give us any money and
you will get extra little bits every now and then. Like a newsletter that we're currently
doing, which has lots of behind the scenes stuff. Or you could give us a little bit of money
every month, help support the podcast. And you can get ad free episodes. You can get bonus
content. You can get merch. You can even get a shout out on our other show, Little Fish.
There's all sorts there for everyone. Go to patreon.com/clubfish to learn more about that.
But in the meantime, please enjoy this show, which I'm absolutely certain you will with
the incredible Zoe Lyons. Ok, up with the podcast.
Hello, and welcome to another episode of No Such Thing as a Fish, a weekly podcast coming
to you from the QI offices in Hobern. My name is Dan Shriver. I'm sitting here with James
Harkin, Andrew Hunter Murray, and Zoe Lyons. And once again, we have gathered around the microphones
with our four favorite facts from the last seven days. And in a particular order, here
we go. Starting with fact number one, and that is Zoe.
Thank you very much, and I've brought a lovely little fact along for this week. Apparently
researchers have discovered that humans may have evolved to run long distances as a result
of their endurance pursuit hunting skills. So the idea being that humans would pursue
its prey for long, long periods of time to exhaust it, their user technique of sort of
running in the heat predominantly, so that the animal would become completely exhausted
and suffer from heat exhaustion, eventually tire. We don't know how long it would take
to tire, but I'm guessing quite a while, if you'd dare.
Over one mile, almost every animal in the world beats us. Yeah, or at least any mammal,
not insects out, but a house cat would absolutely batter us over a mile. But the further
we get, the closer we get to them, and eventually over a couple of days, we beat everyone.
And is that because we've got things like energy buzz and supportive, it's largely
Gatorade that has helped us become the dominant species of climate.
Because we've got a good audio book going on and we don't want to stop. Yeah, yeah.
Whereas cats, silly things, don't listen to things like that. There are loads of different
reasons, but it's all due to our anatomy, right? Yes, yes. So we've got longer legs.
We've got a longer leg, but also we've got, I'm going to say cracking buttocks.
Do we? Yeah, we've got really good buttocks that help you. Thank you for noticing. Thank you
for noticing. You're the first guest we've ever had who noticed that. Yeah, cracking buttocks.
It's the only reason why the podcast is a sit-around for the selection of absolutely cracking
buttocks. Cracking buttocks is a great name for a podcast. It is, isn't it. But we've got
cracking buttocks. We've got long tendons and we've also got an incredible ability to sweat
profusely. That has been mentioned there. Yes, yes, it has been cracking a window in a minute.
So it means that whereas a deer or another man might suffer with the heat over long, long
endurance runs, we are able to literally sweat it out. We can just get radios and chuck it
away and that's really good. I also read that the upright thing is
really interesting because us being upright means that when we're running, we can separate
breathing in and out and our strides, right? If you're a quadruped and you're running
with your legs going in and out, you're sort of moving like an accordion. So you're
sort of having to time your breathing, you get exqueased at various points. And of course
is why horses and dogs are famously bad runners. I tell you what, when I do running, I sound
a bit like an accordion. That wheezing sound. But we can breathe independently of our stride,
which is helpful when you're running around. Although, sorry, you run a lot, right?
Yeah, I've gone through phases of running a lot. I am now getting back into it and I really,
really, it really took off me during the pandemic when we could do nothing else. So I started running
and didn't really stop. But for example, yes, so without fear. And it culminated in my brother
and I running from London to Brighton. So we did, yeah, what is that? How long is that?
At 100 kilometres. Wow. Which sounds, it's 60 miles, but I always say 100 kilometres, because
I think that sounds more impressive. Triple figs in it. Yes, they're a big old hill right
near the end. Right, right at the end. Very, very close to the end. It's just, it is ditchly
and beacon. It's an absolute bastard. And why is it a bit a nightmare for you? Well, I cycle
London. Oh, yeah, everybody complains about that when they cycle it, yeah, it's a real pain.
And it's quite a thing right at the end. Right. We hit it, you know, it was like two o'clock
in the morning by the time we hit that. So did you do it in one go? We did it in one go.
Oh, yeah. It took a very, very, very, very long time. The reason I asked you that so is, because
when I was running, you tend to, you do breathe on your steps, don't you? It's like a rhythm,
you try and breathe when you're stepping. Yeah. Is that right? Well, I, now that I'm getting
back into my running and I just did a half marathon a couple of weeks ago. I have a sort of
meditative thing in my head where I asked a long distance runner once, he used to run hundreds
of miles. I said, what do you think about? And he said, I just go one, two, three, one, two, three.
And I went really? Psychopath. Yeah. Sorry, because he wants it. He's just one, two, three. Yeah.
Skip ball change, skip ball change. One, two, three. And shuffle, shuffle, shuffle, shuffle. Yeah.
I mean, he did pretty well, but it's partnered and it backwards. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly.
When they came to the lifts, it all fell apart. But I do that now when I run it. I've got,
but I don't, I don't supple three. I go to eight. And it really helps with the breathing. It's
one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight. And it becomes so meditative. It becomes so
meditative. And it sort of tunes into your way of thinking and the sort of flow of your brain and
the flow of your breath. Do you know what might have happened to you during that one run between
London and Brighton? At the end of it, you would have been shorter. Yes. You would have been about
half an inch shorter. Yes. Because your spine gets so compressed as you're running that you
literally lose height. So that would have recovered about 20 to 48 hours afterwards. But because of the
length that you ran, not only might you have been shorter, but your brain might have been six percent
smaller. Wow. Or up to six percent smaller. Really? Yeah. Well, I mean, I did question every
moment of it after like there wasn't a bit where I was going, why on earth are we doing this?
Well, this is it's more Ultramarathon runners experience. And it's basically when your body has run
out of things to burn or is running out of things to burn, there's a fatty substance in your brain
that coats around nerve cells called myelin. And your brain just starts eating itself. Oh, my goodness.
Yeah. And that takes like six months to recover from. Are you serious? So you might have been
half an inch shorter and six percent less intelligent. Absolutely delirious by the end. Right.
I was completely delirious by the end. It does awful things to your body. I hadn't trained running
and eating. And I told my brother this as we set off and he went, oh, my God. Really? I said,
yeah, I'll be fine. He went, you mean, you've never run and eaten at the same time. I mean, no,
I'm sure it'd be absolutely fine. Anyway, stop. Well, I mean, yes, but it's, but it's your body can't
quite digest it. Let me just say it was quite catastrophic. Oh, yeah, yeah, it was. I finished the race,
but not in the shorts I started in. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. As a cracking butt.
I was reading about this. So ultra-marathons can induce consequences of all sorts through the world.
Where are adults here? What do you mean? Okay, this is a piece on, I think it was running world.
If you've ever seen post-race urine samples, you will know that things can be bad. I have seen a few
p-cups after hot, grueling ultra-marathons and they could serve as the set location for my next
big game show, Coca-Cola, tomato soup, or urine. Wow. Yeah. It can be brown. It can have pulp.
Apparently, who's just gonna have bits? You don't want to know what that is apparently. I mean, it
gets. Oh, gosh. But yeah, I guess if it, like, I've had friends who've done like the marathon
disarble in the Sahara and that, you know, that is intense. Absolutely. And the level of dehydration
must be just, yeah, yeah, yeah. You'd be weeing out all sorts and it will dust I would imagine by the
end of that. Yeah. So the idea that we've evolved to run is also the idea behind maybe barefoot
running. Yes. Some people think it's healthier to run without shoes than it is to run with shoes.
And I think the studies look at it and probably say that it's better to be barefoot than to just get
a pair of trainers off the shelf. Yeah. But if you get really specialist trainers, they're probably
better still. They're so bouncy these days. Honestly, I'm wearing basically two mattresses.
It's, I've got a new pair of shoes and they are bouncy. Yeah, yeah, yeah, they do help with the
knees and everything. Because I'm getting older as well. So it's, you've got to be careful of the
joints and everything. So yeah, two big bouncy pairs of shoes. Speaking of bouncy, some people think
that the obvious next step from barefoot running is completely naked running. Oh, I'm going to
disagree with that. Just say chaffing. Chaffing is bad. I was thinking there would be less chaffing
if there was less clothing. No skin on skin is not good. It's not good. Yeah. But there are some
manufacturers that make something called naked shorts. We're about as naked as you can get with,
but they're still shorts. They still preserve your modesty. Right. But they're like, you can hardly
feel that they're on there. I was talking to somebody about this the other day about naked running
for me and the thing is, you know, we've got sort of high tech running gear. It's designed to sort of
pull the moisture away from the skin. So you do, you stay drier. But if you've just got sweaty
skin on sweaty skin, wherever that may be, whichever is touching with other, other bit, you will get
problems. And it's things on the long distance, on the little things that you don't think about,
like a label in your shorts, can just over time, you know, take a leg off. And also once it gets in
your head, that's the thing, isn't it? So you're running. And basically, if you're relatively fit,
you can keep running. But your brain is always telling you to stop unless you're an athlete.
Yes. The brain's always saying, oh, I'll just get to that next lamp post and then I'll stop.
Yeah. And so if you feel anything like a little label, your brain is just saying,
I need to stop. Stop and sort that label out. That's a very interesting point. And there's a,
I've only found out recently, there's a technique of running called Jeffing, which apparently is what
these hunters used to do as well, which is a combination of run walking. And it's after a guy called
Jeff Galloway, who was an American Olympian. And it's used by a lot of runners now where you do
conserve energy going up slight inclines or if you to stop long term fatigue, walk for a bit.
So it's running and walking. It's a combination of both. And apparently people are doing really,
really good times on long distance runs by using that combination of running and what and Jeffing,
I trust it. Yeah. I didn't realise I was actually a professional athlete by just walking for a bit.
Can I ask a question of user as the champion runner around the table? Do you smile?
Well, while I'm running. Yeah. Well, not according to the race photos I just got through.
Which I'm going to say alarming. Okay. Okay. In the latest one, I look weirdly like David Cameron.
Yeah. Right. Just like bitterly disappointed and puffy in the face.
A race photo that's kind of like a roller coaster photo. Yeah. It's a spot that just takes everyone.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, I do not look good in those photos. I think I'm smiling,
but I'm clearly not. I'm, yeah, because it could help. Right. This is, there have been lots of,
obviously, so many people are interested in what helps and doesn't help when you're running.
If you smile, it doesn't have to be a real smile. Yeah. You just have to stick one on.
Okay. It means you will use a bit less oxygen. You will run a bit more economically and your internal
perceived exertion is lower than people who are frowning while they're running. I get that.
I do understand. It goes back to what you were saying about saying, stop, stop. You almost stop.
Apparently, if you change your internal monologue, and this goes by Jeff Galloway,
apparently trained people to think of positive words and his words were written down.
It was really lovely. It was, um, relax, power, glide. Fantastic. So if you have those words going
around in your head as you're running, that will help. I'm going to smile. Well, this is what I'm
going to start shouting at joggers. Yeah. Why don't you try relaxing? Is it the old thing that
you used to see on Greeting's card, which is like it takes fewer muscles to smile them frown or
whatever. Yeah. Is it to do with that? Right. It takes fewer muscles still to stuff that card up
somebody else also. Show that where the sun doesn't shine. Yeah. Very funny. There is of course one
animal that can outrun all humans. I know you said that almost every mammal is better.
Really? Over long distances. Over long distances? Yeah. A heron. Okay. Heron. But that is cheating
if you're running with your wings in the air. No, no. This is, um, Kami Heron, who is an ultra-marathon
woman. And you all walked right into my little track there. Absolutely. Yeah. She's great. She's
broken various records. She's run at 1.560 miles in six days. Oh my goodness. Yeah. But there's been
a bit of a scandal about her. Oh, her. She's lost her support from Lululemon. Okay. Oh, so Lululemon
is a clothing company. They do very, very expensive sports gear. Yeah. And basically her husband
was found to have been editing Wikipedia entries of other runners, to remove various runs that they
had done a various achievements that they've made. I think the implication is to make, to make
his wife look better. Yes. Oh, dear. Apparently she didn't know about it, but it's, it's cool to
better. My wife does that with other podcasters on wiki. And it's, I don't see what's wrong with it.
Yes. You'll find no trace at all of off-menual Wikipedia. It's a huge show. It should be there.
That doesn't exist. Okay. It is time for fact number two. And that is my fact. My fact this week
is that celebrity chef Anthony Bourdain used to chop his onions with a knife from outer space.
Correct. Correct. Correct reaction. Yeah. So I discovered this. This is, there's an amazing photo
on a blog of a photographer called David Scott Holloway, who has this beautiful shot of this knife
that used to belong to Bourdain. And it was a knife that featured originally in a TV show that Bourdain
had done where he was meeting a lot of master craftsmen who were involved in the world of food. And one
of the people was Bob Kramer. And Bob Kramer makes knives where he blends steel and meteorite
together. And there's a huge waiting list of people who request them. And largely they're bought at
auction these days. And Bourdain said it was his favourite knife. And so now Bourdain is dead. And
a lot of his stuff was auctioned. So it went up for auction. I was outbid, unfortunately.
I was outbid before it started, because the opening price was 50,000. Wow.
It went for 250,000 American. American dollars. Yeah. Yeah. And it wasn't signed. So you weren't
going to pay that. Oh, I'm not interested in an unsigned space knife. Are you getting me?
Can you put it in the dishwasher? I need to know. If it costs a million dollars. Yeah, pretty
wild, isn't it? Yes. Because actually all my knives cut onions perfectly well. Yes.
So, you know, was this that much better than it's worth that, do you think? Well, this,
I mean, this is Bourdain saying that it is. So we have to go by him, because obviously we haven't
touched it, but it's just cool, isn't it? That it's made of meteorite. It is just cool.
And does Kramer, does he still make them? Yeah, I believe so. Yeah. Um, yeah, it's kind of his thing.
But yeah. So there are some of these meteorite knives out there. It's not just, it's not a one-off.
It's not a one-off. No. I think I have heard that every Toby Carver in the UK has one meteorite.
Really? Samurai knife. Yeah, that's what they is, you know? Right. Yeah. I think he gets his
media right off eBay as well. He's like, there's so much media right on eBay. Do you source your
meteorite? Well, probably there's a call it a meat meat. You're right. Yeah. Wow. I have some
meteorite at home, which I just bought of eBay. Hey, yeah. Yeah, you can't just buy it. They're not
very expensive. Little bits of meteorite. How do you verify its meteorite? Like to your, when you
feel it, are you like, what does it feel very worldly? It's in a, it's in a tube. But it has a little
little thing next to it saying this is a meteorite. Well, I was about to say where does it come from
outer space, but it's from Morocco. That's so cool. How did you come by that? I just bought it for my wife
for a Christmas. Oh, that's pretty. That's a good Christmas present. It's very cheap. Was it?
Well, cheap, I can't remember exactly how much, but fascinating. Because then you can do a kind of
follow your under star thing, aren't you? I brought, well, you know, the Christmas story, the
star in this guy. Well, I've captured that star and I bought a bit of it. Stars aren't made of steel,
though. Well, let's press on too. Can I tell you my favourite knife? Yes. So, have you had a
Kinmen? Who? Kinmen is an island. Tiny Taiwanese island. Very close to the mainland of China,
right? So there was a spell of weirdly China and Taiwan, they used to not get along very well.
And the spell they became one country. Time of recording and all that.
No, they would bomb each other. They would shell each other. And I think they would do it on
alternate days of the week. So China got to bomb Kinmen on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays.
And then Kinmen would bomb on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays. I think it had Sundays off.
Anyway, for years China had this shelling campaign against Kinmen. And you know, there were just
artillery shells hitting the island all the time. There are now knife makers who have these huge
stocks of old artillery shells, which are made of really high quality steel. Because you do need
for artillery, you need good steel. And the blacksmiths all over the island produce these amazing
knives. And you can buy them. That's a really wonderful form of recycling. It's really sort of
about shares, isn't it? I mean, it's properly... Have they started throwing the knives back in?
Just for cooking, I believe. Yeah, but they've got a lot of it still left. They used to make them out of gold.
Oh, nice. Quite soft. Quite actually quite soft, but quite heavy. Okay. And I was reading the
Oxford Companion to Food and they said that the only real danger comes from if you drop it on your
foot, basically, a gold knife. Silver cutlery. Silver spoon for the silver spoon in your mouth,
for instance. Silver is quite poisonous if it gets tarnished. Like if you cut eggs with it,
the sulfur sort of reacts with the silver, and it can become mildly poisonous. So if you crack your
boiled eggs with a silver spoon, it's the sulfur is inside the egg, so it's not the shell which
is made of calcium, it's the inside of the egg. But if you eat eggs with a silver spoon, it will get
tarnished and it's mildly poisonous. Wow. And Napoleon III, he gave his most honored guest,
aluminium cutlery. Actually, everyone else used gold, but the really best one is used aluminium.
Why? Because at the time, aluminium was way, way, way more expensive than gold. This is in the 1880s.
Actually, before the 1880s, it was very difficult to get aluminium. You'd get boxed out, you'd have
to get it out of there. It took ages and ages to get this out and you can only get tiny bits out.
But then there's a thing called the whole hero process, which changed it so that in 1852,
aluminium was $1,200 per kilo. And by the early 20th century, it was $1 per kilo. Wow, poor investment.
All of your money. It took currency of the day.
But you find that a banquet, and somebody beside me was having gold cutlery and I was having
aluminium cutlery. I know you'd been slightly out of place, I think. I think I would have heard of it.
Yes, we've been able to get it back in. And those are Washington Monument has a big load of
aluminium on the top of it. Because at the time, it was so expensive. But now you could just do that for $20.
I got a question for you, Zoe. So you've been on MasterChef, right? On MasterChef, when you go
and cook there, do they give you the absolute high quality, amazing knives? Or is it like all
other TV? They just give you the cheap to stuff they could find? Well, I did end up with a lot of
blue plasters on my digits. So they were quite sharp knives. They were sharp knives, yeah. So they
were good. And the other thing that absolutely lacerated to pieces is those little graters,
you know, that lose it. For not mag and garlic and ginger, I had no knuckles for a few months, yeah.
Can I just quickly qualify who this Anthony Bourdain guy is? Because a lot of people might not have
heard of him, but he was this sort of rock and roll chef. He was a bit counterculture. A lot of people
relate him to people like Hunter S. Thompson, fear and loathing in Las Vegas, because he had quite a
deborched life and he did a lot of drugs. And even his origin story of becoming a chef, which he writes
about in what became quite a cult iconic book, Kitchen Confidential. He says that when he was 17,
he was working as a dishwasher for a wedding reception. And later on in the evening, he saw the
bride and the chef having sex by the garbage. And he thought, okay, that's the job for me. Yeah.
And he he was a guy who made multiple different kinds of TV shows. He makes that sound so much
cool. Really does. You've read it, haven't you? I have read it. Yeah. He's got a very funny anecdote
about his he's going up for this huge, sheffing job and a proprietor of the restaurant and the manager
of the whole thing. They're interviewing him and they're griddling him. And the owner says to him,
what do you know about me? And and Anthony Bourdain doesn't know much about this proprietor at all.
He's going through in his head the whole chapter of the book. He's thinking about how the ways he
can answer this question. Shall I be honest? Shall I be honest? Shall I say this? Shall I flatter?
Shall I do a bit of, you know, criticism? And eventually he's decides to be honest. He says,
next to nothing. What do you know about me? Next to nothing. And the interview goes incredibly
badly from that boy nobbs. And he leaves and he doesn't get the job. And four days later,
he's replaying it in his head like, how did I get that so badly wrong? And he realizes what he was
being asked was, what do you know about meat? Not what do you know about me? And he says, next to nothing.
Unless it was a vegan restaurant. Exactly. I like how he became this big selling author.
Because the question was confidential. I say a cult book. At the time, he was massive.
Spent 44 weeks in the bestseller list in America translated into 22 languages. It's still constantly
in print reissued. And it's all because while he was a chef, he got drunk and he decided to write
an article called, don't eat before reading this. And he sent it to the New Yorker. And he never
intended it to be published. He was just drunk and he sent it. And they went, this is amazing.
And they published it. And it got such a response that publisher has gone and touched saying, can you
expand this into an entire book? Yeah, I read that. It's called yesterday. And it's pretty, I've
worked in a kitchen and I would say it's pretty spot on really. Yeah. Yeah. Like for instance, he says,
that all the new food comes in on a Tuesday. So whatever you do, don't go to a restaurant on a
Monday. Yeah. And also a lot of chefs take Monday off. So you probably don't have the best chef and
you definitely don't have the best food. This isn't in all restaurants, but it's in quite a lot of them.
And he said that there was another thing called save for well done. So if you find a piece of meat,
and it's like, it's really not very nice. So you drop it on the floor or it's just really awful.
You only give it to people who order it well done because they're such filestines that they
wouldn't know the difference between good meat and bad meat. That's great. Have you heard of maybe my
favorite, um, carver of all time, just were on slicing meat and all of this, a renaissance Italian
called vincenzo c'è de vio. And basically lots of houses used to have their own professional
carvers. That was a sign that you were doing really well. Wow. I know. That was a sign you were doing
really well. That showed you would kind of serve Billy Big Bulls. It's like 42-inch TV tonight.
Exactly. Exactly. And they would just arrive, slice the meat, slice off certain cuts,
and they'd do a really good job of it, and then your guests would help themselves, and that was
that's what they do. Oh, they do live with you. They were hired for an occasion. No, there's some,
there are records of courtly carvers from the 15th century where they would live and that was
their job. Yeah, which is just incredible. You would hold the carvership. It's quite a big deal.
And this is sort of why the idea of Toby Carvery does feel a bit ancient and medieval, despite not
being. I'm sorry to cast a spell. I love that you sold it like that. You sold it like that.
Between Toby Carvery and Paul. It's why they call it the Carvery, isn't it? It sort of sounds like
you're partaking of this ancient... I don't want it, I don't want it. I don't want it.
It plays green sleeves on his elutes whenever he goes. You get 10%, you get 10% off if you
break B-Y-O-L. It's a sort of place where you can get all the meats, isn't it? It's a big franchise,
all the meats. It's a big chain, yeah, across the country. Anyway, Cheravio could carve a goose
in mid-air. He was a goose. He would arrive. You're all asking the right questions. He would arrive
holding a goose on a big fork, right? Holding it up. So the goose is impaled on the fork. He's holding
it up right. It's been cooked. It's done. He would gracefully carve it away with his free hand.
That was the Italian way of carving. Basically, all Italians did it like that. It was the Germans
who did it where you stick a fork on the table and cut it that way. How interesting. He wrote
this book with 86 chapters about the carving of particular foods and the duties of a carver.
He said that carving on a plate is just incredibly pathetic and basic.
Anyone who can't carve in mid-air, so the meat lands hot and perfect on the plate is doing it wrong.
He was like the salt bay of his time. So you were on MasterChef, is that because you were a good chef
or did you just put in a good audition? You used to do it with my availability. Anything I've
ever been on has usually been aligned with my availability. But I do like food. Yeah, I like food a lot.
But I have such a... I've got a very scattergun approach to cooking. Sometimes it's excellent.
Sometimes it's really not. And it took me a long time to get out of that thing of, well,
if one chilli in it is good, five is going to be amazing. And I'm very proud to say that I have cooked
something that Greg Wallace took one bite of when I can't see that. And I was like, "Yes,
I made his face go numb." I put so much. I made a medieval chicken pie. I don't know what I was
thinking. I was panicking at this point. And I put so much clove in it, I numbed Greg Wallace's face.
I think that's why he left MasterChef and he had probably... I think that's when the wheels started to
come off. Yes. That's not clove. That's because you're... Because clove, I think dentists used to use
clove. Yes. For two say, it has a numbing effect. And I was like, "Oh, this is tasty." So I just kept
more and more and more and more in and basically I made an anesthetic pie. What's a medieval pie? I feel
like that's got like pigeon in it. Well, I was using quite a lot of clove and herbs and yeah.
Yeah, it's clove, it's a very old clove. It feels quite medieval. Yeah. Spaces.
It was spicy. Yeah. Okay, it is time for fact number three. That is James. Okay, my fact this
week is that the steps to get semen from a shark are number one, get the shark to lie on its back
and number two, remove the semen from the shark. The first of these is by far the hardest.
Welcome to shark semen academy. It's a two-part course. So first of all, semen, I'm talking about
ejaculatory fluid, not sailors. Right. Yeah. Just got to make that clear. But this is an article
that I read on interestingengineering.com and it was about an Australian team who are collecting
semen from wild male leopard sharks. To boost the population and genetic diversity, it's called
the Great Australian Stegostoma semen expedition. It's easy for you to say. And the way that they do it
is that they turn the shark upside down because if you turn sharks upside down, they go into something
called tonic immobility, where they're like hypnotized. There's a few different ways to do it,
but that's the main way. It's crazy that various animals, because it's sharks and a few other things
have this tonic immobility, isn't it? I've heard some theories that humans do it. Really? I don't
think this is true for sure, but like sometimes if people get in very, very stressed or situations,
they just kind of shut down. Is that kind of thing? Just find it crazy that some animals have
effectively a factory settings position. You put the shark upside down and it happens. Yes.
Well, I loved about this story, it's not all sharks. Not all sharks and it's less successful
with great whites. I'm not to have they found that. This is the big question because we know that
the famous thing of saying who was the first person to have the idea to pull the others of a
cow to get milk. Who's the first person to flip a shark and discover not only that it goes into
this state, but it lasts for about 15 minutes. I want to know how many lives were lost in the
process. The last thing is that there have been examples of animals doing this to sharks, so
there was a witness in California who saw a female orca holding a shark upside down to kill it,
basically, to suffocate its death, because it couldn't breathe. So it is possible the humans saw
that and then copied the other animals. Yes, so that will be when it's possible. Is there an
evolutionary benefit to tonic immobility for leopard sharks? I don't know what it is if there is.
Yeah, it could be like that thanatosis where you pretend to be dead, other animals will leave
your own. Yeah, but it feels like they can't get themselves out of it. They can't stop after
10 minutes. No, they have to just wait until it wears off. It's so weird. It could be just like a
quirk of like, you know, their design, because they've got so many sensors, haven't they on the
front of their noses? Yeah. And they're really hypersensitive to it. Yeah, they've got things called
ampules of Lorenzini, which pick up electrical signals, so they can almost the same way that you can
taste an onion, they can taste electricity through these ampules. I think I'm writing saying a shark
can pick up when an animal is in distress, because of the change in, yeah, screaming, the legs come off.
Well, like, like heightened, um, uh, heart rate, the electrical impulses.
Okay, so the reason we're talking about sharks is because you have swung with sharks. Yes,
yeah, yeah, your heart rate go up. So yeah, well, I've been, I was aware of that piece of information
when I was in the water with sharks going, I must appear calm in case they pick up on my electrical
impulses going through the fucking roof at this point. What sort of sharks? I've died with various sharks,
bull sharks, tigers, oceanic white tips, reef sharks, whale sharks, scallop hammerheads,
and giant hammers. All at the same time. All at the same time. No, no, no, no, no, different,
different, different times. Like Pokemon, it feels like, yeah, or freshers, also as soon as,
freshers. This was training for experience in Greg Wallace, wasn't it? That was it, that was it. That
was all training, just a numb Greg Wallace's face. Well, I just rubbed him on his nose and he flipped
over on his back. Are you trying to swim with as many sharks as possible? It feels like there's
can't be an accident. I used to have what I would call probably a normal level of fear around sharks.
I just, you know, the first time I saw a shark in the water, I really did feel my heart rate go
through the roof. It was in the Egypt, diving in Egypt, and the shark came out of nowhere, and I was
like, but then once that fear went down, I went, I got there beautiful. They're so beautiful. So since
then we've sort of tried to tailor our diving in order to see specific species. And I'm slightly
obsessed with just a beauty and shape of hammerheads. And I always wanted to see a hammerhead. And
the first time I saw what I turned around, I was on a diving Mexico, and there was one behind me,
and I just burst into tears in my mask. Yeah. What's the biggest shark? Well, the biggest one that we
heard was it was quite funny. We were on a dive. It was at a cleaning station where there were sharks
being cleaned by little fish. And we were watching these sharks, and we were like, these are beautiful.
I would think they were galapagos sharks and black, black tips. And all of a sudden my friend turned
around. And if you've ever wondered whether it's possible to hear somebody scream on the water,
I can tell you what it is. Because going right behind us, obviously just looking at all of our
back sides as we were facing the other way, it was an enormous tiger shark. Cracking us. Well,
they are very scary. And they do attack if they're having fun. They are less fussy about what they
eat, should we say. Okay. Yeah. So they will be a little bit more opportunistic. Yeah. Yeah. But it
was just clearly going past all of our bum's going, not that one, not that one. That's got a bit of
meat on it. And you could do the the snote rubbing on a tiger shark. That does work as well.
It is how people have saved their lives in the past. Yeah. When they approach sharks. Yeah.
Or indeed say sharks. So obviously there's lots of sharks in the ocean with hooks that are
affecting them and they're extracting them out. And they've been divers have learned how to calm
them down and remove the sharks and hooks. That's incredible. That's such a sort of, gosh, you think
people who do bomb disposal underwater. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They are. That is not taking anything away from
that. I'm sorry. Okay. Soky.com, right? And you're listening to this while you're disposing above
underwater. I do think you're pretty cool, actually. That's very casual approach. My favorite fact about
sharks. I learned in researching this fact, shark semen as we were on shark semen at the start of this.
Yeah. It's extraordinary. Shark semen can last for four years. Really? After deployment. A female shark
can keep sperm. Oh, right. Do you decide herself for four years? And then say, go. The time is
right. We've just moved into a new place. Whatever. We're ready. Is that more about her than the semen,
though? As in if a shark let the semen out just into the ocean and you collected it four years
later, floating. I don't think sharks have super semen which can just survive on the tides for
four years. I think it's inside the feet. It's something that's looking for clarity. It's where
the female's keeping it. So there was an aquarium in California which had a female bamboo shark.
She laid an egg which grew into a happy healthy young shark. She hadn't been with any males for
45 months. Yeah. And it wasn't that because some sharks can do a kind of virgin birth pathogenesis
where they clone themselves effectively. They produce an egg which just turns into the mother.
But this was her and a male shark producing a new shark. Just imagine that. It's really clever.
I'm going on a date with someone and it goes well. And then five years later, you're going to
say, meet your son. Yeah. Exactly. I'll meet your yet to be born, son. Exactly. It's like that,
isn't it? It's not like you've got a five year old. It's like we're about to have a baby. Yes. Yeah.
Crazy. We mentioned before about some sharks not being that fussy about what they eat.
Most of them only eat meat. But there is one omnivorous shark that I found, which is the bonnet
head shark. So it's kind of related to the hammerhead, but it's just got a really kind of rubbish hammer.
It doesn't go very well. It's quite a narrow hammer. But they found that it has seagrass in it,
stomach, which is very unusual. It's a type of vegetable you get in the in the water. And what they
think is that it eats it to kind of line its stomach. And then it eats these really sort of spiky
crabs. And it means that the spiky crabs don't injure its stomach when it eats it. Like Gavascond
for sharks. That's incredible. Yeah. That's very clever though. Yeah. It is. It's stunning. Yeah.
I've never heard of a bonnet head shark. No, I'm not thinking of the list. Yeah. There's some weird
looking sharks out there. Have you ever seen a goblin shark? Oh, that is. Oh, that's oh, it's got
really wrong. What's named for the fact that it basically looks like a goblin. In fact, I think
it I think not because it's goblin. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. In sharks, a goblin shark. Yeah.
The raggy tooth shark. Brilliant. And it's just got oh, it's all over the place. It's like
in British waters. Yeah. It's just it's all up to the roll over. What's the dream shark then for you
to see? Oh, well, it was the giant hammerheads and I've seen them and I've been very, very close.
Yeah. I've had a hammerhead look me in the eye. Right. Yeah. I've never been in the water with a
great white and I am cautious about that. Yeah. It does sound rather dangerous. Yes. I was reading
about what you should do if you do find yourself with an aggressive shark or a shark that is coming
for you. The University of Florida's international shark file says that if you are going to swim with
sharks to sort of help your chances. If it's coming for you, leave the water immediately. So that's
that's good. That's good advice. Oh gosh. I would never have thought of that. Yeah. But this is a
this is a great one. Ideally do it with someone else so you don't become a solitary target.
Yeah. Well, which is the old changing your shoes for running shoes so you outrun the other. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. I've sort of done that. Once on a dive trip in Egypt, the Egyptian navy came and
took our little dinghy away that we were using to get back into to the boat. It commandeered it to move
some of their own stuff so it left us in the water with an oceanic white tip circling underneath us.
And the oceanic white tips are they're interesting shark because they're the ones that you know when
you hear about sort of pirates being eaten in shipwrecks or planes going down and people being eaten by
sharks, it's usually oceanic white tips. They're sort of yeah, they're sort of scavenger sharks in that
respect. And it was it was circling underneath us. And I was in the water with this German guy who I
hadn't spoken to prior to that point. And I just hung on to him because he was massive. And I
thought, well, if it does come for us, I'm hoping it'll prefer a German worst.
Oh my god. Robin Closel. Yeah, Robin Closel. I'll just numb you. He's more yummy. I'm more
yummy. I read in the counter what it's like to be bitten by a shark by a man called Eric Norrie.
And Eric Norrie says it is the scariest thing that you can go through. Even scarier according to him
than some of the other things that have happened to him, which include having been struck by lightning,
bitten by a rattlesnake and nearly beaten to death by a series of monkeys. Wow.
This ranked. This ranked as the highest and he more than anything.
Any prior claims. Oh, yeah, hang on. What was the first one?
Hit by lightning. He got hit by lightning. He was bitten by a rattlesnake.
And then he was beaten, punched up by monkeys, two separate times and bitten by a shark.
And then bitten by a shark. And that was the one. His name is Japanese for seaweed, right?
Norrie. So maybe he was just lining his stomach. Okay, I feel like we're avoiding it.
How do you get Simon out of a shark? That sounds like the start of a joke.
Very very carefully. Would there are different methods? Some, it's because different sharks,
you know, they're very, and sharks don't have penises in the classic human sense. All right,
so you don't hammer the head. Oh my god.
They've got these claspers, which are grooved organs used for delivery of sperm,
which I have to say sound quite penicy to me. And they're inserted into the female's vent.
Again, it sounds a little bit penicy, doesn't it? And then they unfold in complicated ways.
Ha, that's not what a penis does. So, yeah, yeah. But you can, some of them you have to, I believe,
excite. Yeah. How do you do that? Well, dress up as a dolphin.
Cheeky little dolphin. I think it's more of a manual thing. I don't think there's a visual
element to it. I don't think any dress does it. Because they knock down at this point. Sorry.
They're knocked out at this point. Exactly. They're upside down. But you can pop a string in,
or you can, you know, they'll just feel a little prick. All sometimes you can press on
twos on either side and boop out at pops. Oh, that sounds fine. Yeah, it does, doesn't it? Yeah,
like another kind of stuff. It's like a job, though, isn't it? It's like a kind of idea.
It is quite a job, isn't it? If that is your, yeah. I once met a bloke who took,
he got venom from snakes in Australia for antidotes. And that was his job, like,
typans and all sorts. Right. I don't understand you. That's quite a job. But he went, yeah,
it's a bit of a dead-end career, really. It's a stand-up commuting. Couldn't do what you do.
God, what a fun alternative ending. That would have been to jaws. Richard Dreyfist just flips the
shark over and wank some all for the end. We're going to need a bigger bottle.
Okay, it is time for our final fact of the show. And that is Andy. My fact is the British
Olympic skier, Eddie the Eagle, once came second to his own helmet. Okay. So, okay, who's a
younger listeners? Eddie the Eagle is Michael Edwards. Is his name? Yeah. And he represented
Britain at the 1988 Winter Olympics. He is an amazing sportsman and his story is incredible.
We'll get into it. But the main thing to know for the fact is that he was broke. He did a lot of his
training completely broke. He was sleeping in a caravan and he was eating out of bins. He was having
sex with a fried egg style. He had been training for a couple of years and he was so broke that his
helmet was tied on with string. And there was one moment where he finished a jump, one of his early
competitive jumps. And his helmet just snapped off him, ping, and it landed ahead of him.
I see. So it's not like a ski race where it's top to the bottom quickest. It's a jump where you have
to go the further. Exactly. So I didn't know anything about ski jumping. He says I may have been the
first ever ski jumper beaten by his own gear. And so yeah, he was ski jumping. Britain didn't
really have a tradition of ski jumping at all. He was the first person ever to represent Britain
at the Winter Olympics. And he's just an incredible, he came dead last in the 1988 Olympics but he won
the nation's hearts. He won the world's hearts, isn't he? He was a global sensation. Yeah, there's
been a film about him. Have you met him? Yes, I've skied with him. What? He's such a lovely guy,
he really is. So a few years I've done the altitude comedy festival out in Austria. And on one of those
years, he was coming out and talking about, the film was just about to be released. So he was one of the
guests on the festival, talking about his film. And one day the producer went, "John to go skiing with it."
He did eagle and I went, "Do I?" That's amazing. And the thing about him is we sort of concentrate on the
fact that he was, you know, it came last in the ski jump. He's actually an incredible skier.
Yes. He said, "British skier." And I spoke to him and he was saying, you know, he wanted to be in the
downhill, the British downhill team, but he wasn't good enough. So he thought, "Well, rather than
give up completely, what's nobody doing?" And they were like, "Ski jumping, so that's where he went."
So he had the British record for ski jumping at the time. He was, no, he wasn't like a complete
slouch. He was ranked 55 in the world. He had a bad Olympics. I will say that. He came last by
quite a long way. But he wasn't a bad ski jumper really. Like New Zealander in the soccer
well cup and there ranked 85 in the world. And he was 55 in the world at ski jumping. So that kind of
goes to show that he wasn't. Exactly. And he was a brilliant downhill skier. He was the ninth
fastest amateur in the world. Like all the, I mean, he'd been training and he'd been a brilliant sportsman
from a very young age, but he came up. I think the thing is he did a look like a sportsman. Not really.
Like he had these round glasses. Yes. That would mist up whenever he skied. So he couldn't see where he
was going. Imagine doing a ski jump and you don't know where you're going. He's terrified. He said one
in three jumps. He couldn't really see where he was going. The thing about ski jumping is you go
down this big ramp. You're going at about 60 miles an hour. There's a lift. You jump and then
you're trying to get as far down the slope before you hit the ground. So you're sort of moving down
the slope like 10 or 15 feet above the ground. Yeah. You're never like 100 feet in the air. Yeah.
But you're all you're just trying to make the ground drops away. Have you ever stood beside a ski jump?
Oh my god. I mean, when you stand beside the ski jump, it's, it is terrifying. It's utterly
my dad lived in Norway for a while. There was one round the corner from him. And when you see
the structures, you're like, I thought I was standing at the top of that and just letting go. I went to one
of the big sort of finals of the year. They do like the three, I can't remember what it's called,
but it's like three jumps within a week of each other. And one of them is at Garmish Patten Keirchen.
And I went to that mainly because the mountain is called the Wank Mountain. Oh, this is what you
went. One of the best jumpers in the world was Andreas Vank. Wow. So I wanted to see Andreas Vank
from the Wank Mountain, which I did. And even it's in Germany. And even though he's German,
when he came on, I was by far the loudest cheerer for him, I think. I really got up and started cheering
from while the Germans were a bit more involved. He's trying to have sports involvement there.
You tried to turn him upside down. Sharks him off. I really like the post-career from the
Olympics of Eddie, because it's just a series of bumbling fun events. It was things like he had a
five-year sponsorship from Eagle Airlines. And so he did adverts to them and so on. But then people
wrote songs for him in places like Finland. And he charted with them, even though he didn't speak any
finish. He had one song, which was called My Name is Eddie in the English version of it, which it
is. And it's called Michael. Yeah. Yeah. But in fact, Slim Shady is an evidence. Yeah, good point.
And it was written by a protest singer-songwriter called Erwin Goodman. And he was flown over to Finland
to sing it live on TV. And when he got to the hotel room, his phone rang and said, unfortunately,
Erwin, the writer who was going to sing it with you, has died. But we still need you to do it. So he
had to go on TV a few hours later singing a song that he didn't really know. That's an easy language.
Yeah, exactly stunning. But he got to hit with it. There was another one called Fly Eddie Fly,
which was written by Mort Schuman, who wrote the song Viva Las Vegas. I think I remember that one.
And he was massive. He was absolutely. Yeah, yeah. The line about him, which I really like, is that
he made it look difficult skiing. Which it is. And you know, he, he, he, working as a plasterer,
he had been skiing from a very young age. He had been training for a long time. But the thing is,
there's also this story, underpinning it, which is about the snobby British skiing establishment.
So he actually had gotten into the English skiing squad, right? Yeah. But on day one,
he got into a row with one of the selectors at the club, the skiing club they were at. And he
was sent home. He said, right, you're not in the English ski squad anymore. So he thought, well,
I'm just going to skip that and get into the great British squad instead. Which he did, which is
amazing. Um, and if he jumped, if he jumped 70 meters, he could qualify. And so there's this constant
under, undercurrent of like the British skiing establishment, which is they would thought, oh, come on,
you're making us look a bit silly. And he said when he did the actual Olympic jumps,
the 90 meter event, which was the biggie. Yeah. He said, everyone else competing in that event had done
30 to 50,000 jumps off that ramp in their lives. I had done five. So yeah. But he did host a four-hour
press conference once because he was just such an entertaining voice. The movie that you mentioned
earlier that was made, um, great movie. And it came about because Matthew Vaughn, who made the film,
he was sitting down with his kids and watching cool runnings. And his kids were crying with laughter.
I've had this experience recently because it was one of my favorite movies as a kid. My boys were
in floods of tears. It was just the funniest thing they'd ever seen. And he was like, why don't we make
movies like this anymore? And as it turned out, Eddie the Eagle was competing at the exact same
Calgary 1988 Olympics that the cool runnings Jamaican bobsled team were at. So two stories where
they tried their hardest, but didn't have the tools to win came out of that one Olympics. It's
pretty amazing. I love stories like that. I was watching the most recent um, parallel Olympics,
Winter Olympics. And there was a Haitian skier with one leg doing the downhill or the Super G.
And I just thought, what an incredible, what an incredible achievement. Yeah, you know,
what the cause is. Yeah, the one of the poorest countries in the world. Yeah. If not the poor, you
know, and with one leg and he was and he got down the course, it was a really difficult course.
The conditions were awful and not everybody made it. And I just thought, wow, that is absolutely
inspiring. Do you have an artificial leg for that event? Or do you can? You can, but he didn't. Yeah.
Yeah. Great. That's amazing. Yeah. Incredible. So cool. So you, if you're doing the altitude festival,
I'm guessing that you ski. I ski. Yeah. And is that the downhill classic? What I've been called?
Down your hill. I've broken the mold. Yeah. Coming into Brighton, the end of the marathon.
Yeah. No, I love skiing. I learned skiing Scotland. And apparently she can learn to ski in Scotland,
you can ski anywhere. Yeah. In Glen Shea over sheep and rivers. Why is it tough? Because the conditions
are usually pretty grim. Yeah. There will be a, when I was I was there as a kid, the,
would be the odd sheep running about. And the white. Yeah. And you do laugh, but I have been blown
up a mountain in Scotland. Oh, not so euphemous. I have literally been the wind and the conditions
were so awful. Yeah. That's what I mean by rough conditions. Yeah. Whenever I've been, for instance,
you just can only see like about two meters in front. Oh, not me. Having said all of that and to give
Glen Shea and the other ski resorts in Scotland these Jews, when the weather is good, it's fantastic.
And it's beautiful. Yeah. Okay. I've never ski jumped, I assume. No. I would, when I was younger,
though, I would have given it a go. Do you think? I would have given it a go. The president of the
International Ski Federation, Jan Franco Casper once said, it's not appropriate for ladies from
medical points of view to ski jump, because he thought the uterus might burst when they landed.
Well, you know, yeah. And he said that in 2010. Oh. Well, that would have been the first ever
Olympics. I mean, 2010. Wow. So must be correct, right? Yeah. Because the landings aren't very
hard. That's the thing I didn't. Not if you do it, right? Yeah. Yeah. Because anyone can jump,
you know, 10 feet down. That's fine. Like, you know what I mean? Like, you're only 10 feet down.
Okay. Let's move on. But no, I had, so I didn't know anything about ski jumping, right?
No, I've never been skiing or anything like that. But the thing that's so cool, looking at it,
is the way they make themselves more aerodynamic. And there have been all these techniques over the years
of how to stay in the air, because obviously a flying squirrel would be the perfect
jet ski jump. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Get those, get those flaps out. Yeah. And come on. Not if your uterus is
that's the thing about the sport is your, your costume has to be skin tight. And these have been,
I'm sure you guys in the research found this, this recent scandal in the skiing world of the Norwegian
coaches and one former equipment manager who were caught adding crotch stitching. Oh, yes. Yeah.
To make the surface area bigger. And therefore, I think where people were put in injections in the
penises. So this is penis gate. And this, I think, that's an area of your, I think.
Penis gate, I think, is still under investigation, because basically, if you think it wouldn't have an
effect, just adding some extra stitching into the crotch, it doesn't sound like it would have much
of an effect, right? Some research has been done, which concluded a single extra centimeter at the
crotch could mean you got four meters further. Wow. It's quite, yeah, it's quite a lot, a lot
further you can go with just a little extra fabric, which is why you're measured with a laser,
so that your costume is absolutely skin tight. Right. And some athletes have supposedly been
injecting their penises with a kind of acid sort of medical acid to increase the circumference by
a couple of centimeters. So it does, which would give you more service air and could lengthen your
jumps, but not out of front. I mean, I mean, they're not coming second to their own helmets as well,
okay, that's it. That is all of our facts. Thank you so much for listening. If you'd like to get in
contact with any of us about the things that we've said over the course of this show, we can all be
found online. I'm on @Streiberland on Instagram, James. Come join me on LinkedIn. Search my name,
offer me a job. Andy, I'm @adreodreb and Zoe, where are you? I'm @ZoeLine's comedy, I think.
And so, okay, you've got your pod, which is very exciting, and you discuss running and you have
guests on all the time. You had Alice Roberts on not too long ago. Yeah, so give everyone a
quick idea of what. So the podcast is called The Running Joke. I presented with my fellow comedian and
fellow runner, Esther Manito, and it's about all things running. And we have lovely guests on and
talking about all aspects of running and taking the stigma out of running. So it's for anybody and
everyone. And having read about Jeff Galloway's approach, I'll be Jeffing my way around a lot of
stuff. That's very cool. So available now, where you get all your podcasts. If you want to write
into us about any of the things that we've said over the course of this show, podcast@QI.com, send
us your best facts, because we'll take those to Little Fish, the show that we do every Monday,
or send us feedback about things and experiences you've had related to the show, because Andy goes
through the inbox, picks out the best, and that goes to Jewel, which is drop us a line, our mailbag
show. And that's a part of our secret club, which is called Club Fish. If you're not a member of Club
Fish, go to patreon.com/clubfish and check it out. There's multiple tiers, multiple things that you
can do. Otherwise, just come back here next week, because we're going to be back with another episode.
We will see you then. Good bye.
(upbeat music)
[BLANK_AUDIO]